Problem of Univariance/The fact that an infinite set of different wavelength-intensity combinations can be elicit exactly the same response from a single type of photonreceptor. One photoreceptor type cannot make color discrimations based on wavelength.
Scotopic/Light intensities that are bright enough to stimulate the rod receptors but to dim to stimulate the cone receptors. Compare sctopic and mescopic.
Photopic/Light intensities that are bright enough to stimulate the cone receptors and bright enough to "saturate" the rod receptors (i.e,. drive them to their maximum response) Compare scotopic en mescopic.
S-cone/A cone that is prefentially sensitive to short wavelengths; colloquially (but not entirely accurately) known as a "blue cone".
M-cone/A cone that is prefentially sensitive to middle wavelengths; colloquially (but not entirely accurately) known as a "green cone".
L-cone/A cone that is prefentially sensitive to long wavelengths; colloquially (but not entirely accurately) known as a "red cone".
Trichromatic theory of color vision (or trichometry)/The theory that color of any light is defined in our visual system by the relationships of three numbers, the outputs of three receptor types now known to be the three cones. Also known as the Young-Helmholtz theory.
Metamers/Different mixtures of wavelengths that look identical. More generally any pairs of stimuli that are perceived as indentical in spite of physical differences.
Addition color mixture/A mixture of lights. If light A and light B are both reflected from a surface to the eye, in the perception of color the effects of those two lights are add together.
Subtractive color mixture/A mixture of pigments. If pigments A and B mix, some of the light shining on the surface will be subtracted by A, and some by B. Only the remainder contributes to the perception of color.
Color space/The Three-dimensional space, established because color perception is based on the output of three cone types that describe the set of all colors.
Hue/The chromatic (colorful) aspect of color (red, blue, green, yellow, and so on).
Sturation/The chromatic strength of a hue. White has zero saturation, pink is more sturated, and red is fully saturated.
Brightness/The distance from black (zero brightness) in color space.
Lateral Geniculate Nucleaus (LGN)/A strucutre in the thalamus, part of the middle brain, that receivs input from the retinal ganglion cells and has input and output connections to the visual cortex.
Color-opponent cell/A nueron whose output is based on a difference between sets of cones.
Opponent color theory/The theory that perception of color is based on the output of three mechanisms, each of them based on an opponency between two colors: red-green, blue-yellow and black-white.
Unique blue/A blue that has no red or green tint.
Unique hue/Any of four colors that can be described with only a single color term: red, yellow, green, blue. Other colors (e.g., purple or orange) can be described as compounds (reddish blue, reddish yellow).
Afterimage/A visual image seen after the stimulus has been removed.
Adaptive stimulus/A stimulus whose removal produces a change in visual perception or sensitivity.
Negative afterimage/An afterimage whose polarity is the opposite of the original stimulus. Light stimuli produce dark negative afterimages. Colors are complementary; for example red produces green; yellow produces blue.
Neutral point/The point at which an opponent color machanism is generating no signal. If red-green and blue-yellow machanisms are at their neutral points, a stimulus will appear archromatic (The black-white process has no neutral point.)
Achromatopsia/An inability to perceive colors that is caused by damage to the central nervous system.
Deuteranope/An individual who suffers from color blindness that is due to the absence of M-cones.
Proteranope/An individual who suffers from color blindness that is due to the absence of L-cones.
Tritanope/An individual who suffers from color blindness that is due to the absence of S-cones.
Color-anomalous/A better term for what is usally called "color-blind". "Most color-blind" individuals can still make discriminations based on wavelength. Those discrimations are different from normal -- that is anomalous.
Cone-monochromat/An individual with only one cone type. Cone monochromats are truly color-blind.
Rod-monochromat/An individual with no cones of any type. In addition to being truly color-blind, rod monochromats are badly visually impaired in bright light.
Agnosia/A failure to recognize objects in spite of the ability to see them. Agnosia is typically due to brain damage.
Anomia/An inability to name objects in spite of the ability to see and recognize them (as shown by usage). Anomia is typically due to brain dammage.
Cultural Relativism/In sensation and perception, the idea that basic perceptual experiences (e.g., color perception) may be determined in part by the cultural environment.
Unrelated color/A color that can be experiences in isolation.
Related color/A color, such as brown or gray, that is seen only in relation to colors. A "gray" patch in complete darkness appears white.
Illuminant/The light that innumilates a surface.
Spectral reflectance function/The function relating the wavelength of light to the percentage of the wavelength that is reflected from a surface.
Spectral power distribution/The physical energy in alight as function of wavelength.
Color contancy/The tendancy of surface to appear the same color under a fairly wide range of illuminants.
Reflectance/The percentage of light hitting the surface that is reflected and not absorbed into the surface. Typically reflectance is given as a function of wavelength.
