adaption/A reduction in response caused by prior or continuing simulation.
sensory transducer/A receptor that converts physical energy from the environment into neural activity.
nativism/The idea that the mind produces ideas that are not derived from external sources andthat have abilities that are innate and not learned.
dualism/The idea that both mind and body exist.
monism/The idea that mind and matter are formed from, or reducible to, a single ultimate substance or principle of being.
materialism/The idea that physical matter is the only reality, and everything including the mind can be explained in terms of matter and physical phenomena. A type of monism.
mentalism/The idea that the mind is the true reality and the objects exist only as aspects of the mind's awareness. is a type of monoism.
Mind-body dualism/Orginated by René Descartes, the idea positing the existance of two distinct principles of being in the universe: spirit|soul and matter|body.
Empiricism/The idea that experience from the senses is the only source of knowledge.
Panpsychism/The idea that all mater has consciousness.
Psychophysics/The science of defining quantitative relationships between physical and psychological (subjective) events.
Two-point touch threshold/The minimum distance at which two stimuli (e.g. two simultaneous touches) are just perceptible as separate.
Just noticeable difference (JND) (or difference threshold)/The smallest detectable difference between two stimuli, or the minum change in stimulus that enables it to be correclty judged as different fro a reference stimulus.
Weber fraction/The constant of proportianlity in Weber's law.
Weber's law/The princple that the just noticable difference (JND) is a constant fraction of comparsion stimulus.
Fechner's law/The principle describing the relationship between stimulus and resulting sensation such that the magnitude of subjective sensation increases proportionally to the logarithm of the stimulus intensity.
Absolute threshold/The minimum amount of stimuli neccesary for a person to detect a stimulus 50% of the time.
Method of constant stimuli/A psychophysical method in which many stimu, ranging from rarely to almost always perceivable (or rarelty to almost perceivable different from a reference stimulus), are presented one at a time. Participants respond to each presentation: "yes|no", "same|different", and so on.
Method of limits/A psychophysical method in which the particular dimension of a stimulus, or the difference between two stimuli, is varied incrementally until the participant responds differently.
Method of adjustment/The method of limits for which the subject controls the change of the stimulus.
Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC) curve/In studies of signal detection, the graphical plot of the hit rate as a function of the false alarm rate. If these are the same, points fall on the diagonal, indicating that the observer cannot tell the difference between the presence and the absence of the signal. As the observers sensitivity increases the curve bows upward toward the upper left corner. That point represents a perfect ability to destinguish signal from noice (100% hits, 0% false alarms).
Signal detection theory/A psychophysical theory that quantifies the response of an observer to the presentation of the signal in the presence of noice. Measure attained from a series of presentations are sensitivity (d') and criterion of the observer.
Magnitude estimation/A psychophysical method in which the participant assigns values according to perceived magnitudes of the stimuli.
Cross-modality matching/The ability to match the intensities of sensation that come from different sensory modalities. This ability enables insight into sensory differences. For example, a listener might adjust the brightness of a light until it matches thé loudness of a tone.
Steven's power law/A principle describing the relationship between stimulus and resulting sensation, such that the magnitude of subjective sensation is proportional to the stimulus magnitude raised to an exponent.
Doctrine of the specific nerve energies/A doctrine formulated by Johannes Müller stating that the nature of a sensation depends on which sensory fibers are sumulated, not on how the fibers are simulated.
Cranial nerves/Twelve pair of nerves (one for each side of the body) that originalte in the brain stem and reach sense organs and muscles through openings in the skull.
Olfactory nerves/The first pair of crainial nerves, which conduct impulses from the mucous membranes of the nose to the olfactory bulb.
Optic nerves/The second pair of cranial nerves which arise from retina and carry visual information to the thalamus and other parts of the brain.
Auditory nerves/The eight pair of cranial nerves which connect the inner ear with the brain. Transmitting impulses concerned with hearing and balance. The nerve is composed of the cochlear nerve and the vestibular nerve and therefore is sometimes referred to as the vestibulocochlear nerve.
Oculomotor nerves/The third pair of cranial nerves which innervate all the excentric muscles of the eye except the lateral rectus and the superior oblique muscles, and which innervate the elevator muscle of the upper eyelid, the ciliary muscle, and the sphincter muscle of the puple.
Trochlear nerves/The fourth pair of cranial nerves which innervate the superior oblique muscles of the eyeballs.
Abduncens nerves/The sixth pair of cranial nerves, which innervate the lateral rectus muscle on each eye.
Polysensory/Blending multiple sensory systems.
Vitalism/The idea that "vital forces" are active within living organisms, and these forces cannot be explained by physical processes of matter more generally.
Synapse/The junction between neurons that permits information transfer.
Neurotransmitter/A chemical substance used in neuronal communcation at synapses.
