Attention/Any of the vary large set of selective processes in the brain. To deal with the impossibility of handling all inputs at once, the nervous system has evolved machanisms that are able to restrict processing to a subset of things, places, ideas, or moments in time.
Selective attention/The form of attention involved when processing is restricted to a subset of possible stimuli.
Reaction Time (RT)/A measure of the time from the onset of a stimulus to a response.
Cue/A stimulus that might indicate wether (or what) a subsequent stimulus will be. Cues can be valid (correct information), invalid (incorrect), or neutral (uninformative).
Stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA)/The time between the onset of one stimuls and the onset of another.
Visual Search/Looking for a traget in a display containing distract elements.
Target/The goal of a visual search.
Distractor/In visual search, any stimulus other than the target.
Set size/The number of items in a visual display.
Feature search/Search for a target defined by a signel attribute, such as a salient color or orientation.
Salience/The vividness of a stimulus related to its neighbors.
Parallel/In visual attention, reffering to the processing of multiple stimuli at the same time.
Serial self-terminating search/A search from item to item, ending when a target is found.
Guided search/Search in which attention can be restricted to a subset of possible items on the basis of information about the target item's basic features (e.g., its color).
Conjuctnion search/Search for a target defined by the presence of two or more attributes (e.g., a red vertical target among red horizontal and blue vertical distractors).
Biding problem/The challange of tying different attributes of visual stimuli (e.g., color, orientation, motion), which are handled by different brain circuits, to the appropriate objects so that we perceive a unified object (e.g., red, vertical, moving right).
Preattentive stage/The processing of a stimulus that occurs before selective attention is deployed to that stimulus.
Feature integration theory/Anne Treisman's theory of visual attention which holds that a limited set of basic features can be processed in parallel preattentively, but that other properties, including the correct binding of features to objects, require attention.
Illuory conjuction/An errorneous combination of two features in a visual scene - for example, seeing red X when the display contains red letters and Xs but no red Xs.
Rapid sterial visual presentation (RSVP)/An experimental procedure in which stimuli appear in a stream at one location (typically the point of fixation) at a rapid rate (typically about eight per second).
Attentinal blink/The difficulity in perceiving and respondin to the second of two target stimuli amid a rapid stream of distracting stimuli if the observer has responded to the first target stimulus within 200 to 500 milliseconds before the second stimulus is presented.
Repitation blindness/A failure to detect the second occurence of a letter, word, or pricutre in a rapildy presented stream of stimuli when the second occurence falls within 200 to 500 milliseconds of the first.
Fusiform face area/An area in the fusiform gyris of human extrastriate cortex that responds preferentially to faces in fMRI studies.
Parahippocampal place area/A region of cortex in the temporal lobe of humans that appear to respond with particular strength to images of places (as opposed to isolated objects).
Response enhancement/An effect of attention on the response of a neuron in which the neuron responding to an attended stimulus gives a bigger response.
Sharper tuning/An effect of attention on the response of a neuron in which the neuron responds more precely. For example a neuron that responds to line with orientation from -20 degrees to +20 degrees might come to resond to +- 10 degree lines.
Visual-field defect/A portion of the visual field with no vision or with abnormal vision, typically resulting from damage to the vision nervous system.
Partietal lobe/In each cerebral hemisphere a lobe that lies towards the top of the brain between the frontal and occipital lobes.
Neglect/In visual attention, the inability to attend to or respond to stimuli in the contralesional visual field (typically, meglect of the left field after right parietal damage). Also neglect of half of the body or half of an object.
Contralesional field/The visual field on the side opposite a brain lesion (e.g., point to the left of fixation are contralesional to demage to the right hemisphere of the brain).
Extinct/In visual attention, the inability to perceive a stimuli to one side of the point of fixation (e.g., the right) in the presence of another stimulus, typically in a comparable position in the other visual field (e.g., the left side).
Ipsilesional field/The visual field on the same side as the brain lesion.
Simultagnosia/An inability to perceive more than one object at a time. Simultagnosia is consequence of bilateral damage to the parietal lobes (Balint syndrome).
Change blindess/The failure to notica a change between two scenes. If the change does not alter the gist, or meaning, of the scene, quite large changes can pass unnoticed.
Convert attentional Shift/A shift of attenion in the absence of corresponding movements of the eyes.
Overt attentional shift/A shift of attion accompanied by corresponding movements of the eyes.
Spatial layout/The description of the structure of a scene (e.g., enclosed, open, rough, smooth) without reference to the identity of specific objects in the scene.
