Wave/An oscillation that travels through a medium by transferring energy from one particle or point to another without causing any permanent displacement of the medium.
Photon/A quantum of visible light or other form of electromagnetic radiation demonstrating both particle and wave properties.
Absorb/To take up light, noise, or energy and not transmit it at all.
Scatter/To disperse light in an irregular fashion.
Reflect/To redirect something that strikes a surface - especially light, sound, or heat -  usally back towards it's point of origin.
Transmit/To convey something (e.g., light) from one place or thing to another.
Refract/1. To alter the course of a wave of energy that passes into something from another medium, as water does to light entering from the air. 2. To mesure the degree of refraction in a lens or eye.
Image/A picture or likeness.
Cornea/The transparent "window" into the eyeball.
Transparent/Allowing light to pass through with no interruption so that objects on the other side can be clearly seen.
Aqueous humor/The watery fluid in the anterior chamber of the eye.
Crystalline lens/The lens inside the eye that enables changing focus.
Pupil/The dark circular opening at the center of the iris in the eye, where light enters the eye.
Iris/The colored part of the eye consisting of a muscular diaphragm surrounding the pupil and regularing the light entering the eye by expanding and contracting the pupil.
Vitreous humor/The transparent fluid that fills the vitreous chamber in the posterior part of the eye.
Retina/A light-sensitive membrane in the back of the eye that contains rods and cones, which receive an image from the lens and sens it to the brain through the optic nerve.
Accommodation/The process by which the eye changes it's focus (in which the lens gets fatter as gaze is directed towards nearer objects).
Presbyopia/Literally "old sight". The loss of near vision because of insufficient accomodation.
Cataract/Opacity of the crystalline lens.
Emmetropia/The condition in which there is no refractive error. Because the refractive power of the eye is perfect matched to the length of the eyeball.
Myopia/A common condition in which light entering the eye is focused in front of the retina and distant objects cannot be seen sharply.
Astigmatism/A visual defect caused by the unequal curving of one or more of the refractive surfaces of the eye, usually the cornea.
Transduced/Reffering to the conversion from one form energy (e.g., light) to another (e.g., electricity).
Fundus/The back layer of the retina - what the eye doctor sees through an ophthal,oscope.
Photoreceptors/Light-sensitive receptors in the retina.
Rods/Photoreceptors specialized for night vision.
Cones/Photoreceptors specialized for daylight vision, fine visual acuity and color.
Duplex/In reference to the retina, consisting of two parts: the rods and the cones, which operate under different conditions.
Outer segment/The part of a photoreceptor that contains photopigment molecules.
Inner segment/The part of a photoreceptor that lies between the outer segment and the cell nucleus.
Synaptic terminal/The location where axons terminate at the synapse for transmission of the information by release of a chemical transmitter.
Chromophore/The light-catching part of athe visual pigments in the retina.
Rhodopsin/The visual pigment found in rods.
Photoactivation/Activation by light.
Hyperpolarization/A increase in membrane potential where the inner membrane surface becomes more negatie than the outer membrane surface.
Graded ptential/A electrical potential that can vary continuously in amplitude.
Eccentricity/The distance between the retina image and the fovea.
Horizontal cells/Specialized retinal cells that contact both photoreceptor and bipolar cells.
Lateral inhibition/Antagonistic neural interaction between adjacent regions of the retina.
Amacrine cells/Retinal cells found in the inner synaptic layer that make synaptic cotact with bipolar cells, ganglion cells, and one other.
Bipolar cells/Retinal cells that synapse with either rods or cones (not both) and with horizontal cells and then pass signals on the ganglion cells.
Diffuse bipolar cells/Bipolar retinal cells whoe processes are spread out to receive input from multiple cones.
Sensitivity/1. The ability to perceive via the sense organs. 2. Extreme responsiveness to radiation, especially to light of a specific wavelength. 3. The ability to respond to transmitted signals.
Visual acuity/A measure of the finest detail that can be rsolved by the eyes.
Midget bipolar cells/Small cone bipolar cells in the central retina that receive input from a single cone.
ON bipolar cells/Bipolar cells that respond to an increase in light captured by the cones.
OFF bipolar cells/Bipolar cells that respond to an decrease in light captured by the cones.
Ganglion cells/Retinal cells that receive visual information from photoreceptors via two intermediate neuron types (bipolar cells and amacrine cells) and transmits information to the brain and midbrain.
P ganglion cells/Small ganglion cells that receive excitatory input from single midget bipolar cells in the central retina and feed the parvocellular layer of the lateral geniculate nucleus.
M ganglion cells/Ganglion cells resebling little umbrellas that receive excitatory input from diffuse bipolar cells and feed the magnocellular layer of the lateral geniculate nucleus.
Receptive field/The region on the retina in which visual stimuli influence a neuron's firing rate.
ON-center cell/A cell that depolarizes in response to an increase in light intensity in it's receptive field center.
OFF-center cell/A cell that depolarizes in response to an decrease in light intensity in it's receptive field center.
filter/An acoustic, electrical, electronic, or optical device, instrument, computer program, or neuron that allows pasage of some frequencies or digital elements and blocks the passage of others.
Contrast/The difference in luminance between an object and the background, or between lighter and darker parts of the same object.
Retinis pigmentosa (RP)/A progressive degeneration of the retina that affects night vision and peripheral vision. It runs commonly in families and can be caused by defects in a number of different genes that have recently been identified.
